# HomieFood
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7CC_AeumWU&t=2s>
#### Description: The project is a website application with a purpose of selling home made food to customers and gives an opportunity for people who can cook extremely good home made food, with different cultural background, to be able to use this platform for adding their menu and selling on the website.
## Files
### app.py: The app.py is the whole logic of the application where all route handling functions and table data insertion logic is created.
#### Usage
##### Register: *Users can create accounts by visiting the registration page.*Fill in the required details, including username, password, first name, last name, and role (Customer/Supplier).*Click "Register" to create an account.*Login: After registration, users can log in using their credentials on the login page.*Browse and Order Meals: Users can explore available meals by navigating to specific categories. Place orders for desired items, and the status of the orders will be updated accordingly.*Manage Profile: Suppliers can manage their profiles by adding new food items and deleting existing ones.Customers can view their order history and explore past orders.*Customers can view the status of their orders, once ready, it moves to the history*Logout: Users can log out to securely end their session
#### func.py: is a file with helping functions like currency convertor function.
##### *UploadIMG func: This function is made specifically for fetching the images uploaded and saving it in the images folder in the static folder. 
##### *apology func: This function is used to output and errorMessage at an occurance of an error.
##### *ItConverts func: This function is used to take a number and convert it to a EURO currency, with an error handler if the input is not a number
#### HTML files: The html files include and not limited to the index and layout where the utilization of Jinja plays a huge role in forming the repititive parts in every other html file, and other htmls that was created to represent the whole purpose of the web application like meals.html where this is the html that shows the different meals in the database based on the selected catgeory from breakfast to dinner. The profile.html which if logged in as a supplier displays the menus for this specific supplier and the ability to add new items to the menu or the deletion of any instance in the menu, upon adding a new item this pops the newitem.html that takes data about the new item to be added to the menu. 
#### Style.css: This is the file which contains all of the styling made possible for the web application, containing mainly the styling of the added, displayed items in menus as cards on the website or the stryling of the nav-bar.
#### foodie.db: The database which all of the data is saved in, utilizing sqlite3 to creating the database and creating the necessary tables required for fetching and joining data in a logical sense.
##### Tables
###### **users:**-`id`(INTEGER): Primary key, auto-incremented. -`FirstName` (VARCHAR): User's first name.- `LastName` (VARCHAR): User's last name.- `username` (TEXT): User's username.- `PWhash` (TEXT): Hashed password.- `Role` (TEXT): User's role (Customer/Supplier).
###### **food:**- `id` (INTEGER): Primary key, auto-incremented.- `Title` (TEXT): Food item title.- `Description` (TEXT): Food item description.- `Price` (DECIMAL): Food item price.- `Category` (TEXT): Food item category.- `supplierid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `supplier` table.- `img_path` (TEXT): Path to the image of the food item.
###### **supplier:** - `id` (INTEGER): Primary key, auto-incremented.- `History` (TEXT): Supplier's history.- `usersid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `users`
###### **customer:**- `id` (INTEGER): Primary key, auto-incremented. - `History` (TEXT): Customer's order history. - `Address` (TEXT): Customer's address.- `orderid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `orders` table.- `userid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `users` table.
###### **orders:**- `id` (INTEGER): Primary key, auto-incremented.- `foodid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `food` table.- `customerid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `customer` table.- `supplierid` (INTEGER): Foreign key referencing the `id` in the `supplier` table.- `Status` (TEXT): Order status (default: 'Not Ready').
